---
title: If You Want Something Done Well...
author: twi
---

### Have you ever used a product and thought: "It would be much better if *x*, *y*, *z*!"

Learning Japanese ~has been~ **is still** a lifelong adventure. There are days where I want to smash my head in because I'm simply struggling to digest new information. From the beginning, I knew I didn't have the intrinsic motivation to self-study my way to passing any high level proficiency test. I really just wanted to learn enough to understand my songs and animes I loved back then.

I did take Japanese classes during college. Homework wasn't difficult, but it was a perfect way to motivate me to learn the language. Outside of class, I also wanted to use an app to keep me motivated to learn, and I met a certain deceivingly cute, green owl that always reminded me to keep my streak of stringing blocks of Japanese together, rewarding me with a dopamine-inducing ring whenever I got the permutation correct. It was a fun way to learn Japanese, but after a while I realized that it wasn't actually helping me learn the language. I nevertheless did stay with the owl, but I eventually became indifferent: the success bells didn't feel the same as they used to... Days turned into weeks, and I felt like I needed to have a conversation with Duo about our relationship...

Sorry drama-seekers, it actually wasn't that emotional. Duo is still happy as long as *you* keep *your* streak. But I did browse Reddit to see what apps other people used to learn Japanese, and I stumbled upon WaniKani, an SRS-based review website. Suffice to say, I cheated on the owl with an alligator-crab hybrid. She was just so nice to me! Not only did she reward my learning along the way with fun mnemonics and facts about the vocabulary, but she provided reliable testimonies from her past users. My heart skipped a beat: hook, line and sinker. We had the best week of our lives until she asked me the dreaded question. "\$10 a month, \$100 a year, or \$300 to have me *forever*?". Fortunately, my love wasn't irrational enough to ignore a red flag such as this. At that time, Wanikani came free only for the first 10 levels, which included about 200 kanjis or so I could learn. I was in high school, and I had no money to fork over at that time. The only choice I had was to tell the greedy grifter, "sorry, but this won't work out." We were both disappointed, but it was the only choice I could have made. We went our separate ways as my mind lingered, wanting a replacement.

[Houhou](https://github.com/Doublevil/Houhou-SRS). An open-source version of Wanikani that only works on Windows. It's developed in C# by Github user, *Doubleevil*. It was basically Wanikani but without the programmed inclusion of "leveling up" as you completed the current set of new vocabulary or kanji. You, the user, had to add it yourself. That was both a blessing and a curse. Add too many, and you're bound to get overwhelmed for the upcoming week. Too little, and you don't feel like you're progressing. However, I had my longest time with Houhou. I really did like the fact that I could choose my pace while also being able to add vocab not taught in Wanikani's set. But I always wondered if I would have learned more if I did spend money on Wanikani. Economics and money is unfortunately a necessary evil to the motivation of success. And this, I lingered on the hindsight regret of not spending enough money on an ex-partner I loved... Maybe in a parallel universe I am buying my alligator-crab partner a pair of [Supreme chopsticks](https://stockx.com/supreme-chopsticks-red) every year, and we live happily ever after.

Ok... I'll stop talking about the apps I used like I'm spilling relationship tea. Anyways, Houhou was intuitive to use and very profitable to my Japanese learning experience. I added custom words and vocabs I saw in my animes and novels I read throughout the years. I kept a backup of my personal database in my Google Drive in case of crashes. Wait what? This app crashes? And what does that have to do with having to keep a backup database? So, I noticed a few problems with Houhou throughout the years. One of them was that loading information from the internal database of vocabulary and kanji information was *very* suboptimal and inefficient. When I'm scrolling down the N2 or N1 vocab down to #500 or so, I end up using like 2 GB of memory for some reason, and it just keeps increasing as I click "load more". I also was using a laptop with a Snapdragon CPU, and I definitely do not think that its Windows emulation layer played nice with Houhou. There were many inconsistent times where I would get an error during my review session that suddenly crashes my Houhou. If God were nice that day, I wouldn't lose any progress. However, if I committed grave sins, God smited me with a corrupted database, and this is the reason why I more vigilent in keeping updated copies of my database. Previously, I only kept copies in case I wanted to move between devices. And every time I encounter another crash in Houhou, it felt like I lost a part of my soul, thinking that this weeks work would just get Lebron James dunked into the trash. 

Anyways, I hated this, so I decided to fix my own problems by making my own application. I decided to take the filtered database that Houhou provided and created a successor. Does it have problems? Yes, many. In fact, more than I would like to admit... but I can fix my problems instead of staring at a hell of a Windows application and figuring out how to fix an unknown problem in a language and framework I'm not familiar with. That's the birth of my SRS Tool!
